README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>BTC MythBusters</h1>
  <img width="200" src=".\_images\Logo-BTCMythBusters.png" alt="logo of BTC MythBusters">
</div>

> **Clarification of common misconceptions regarding Bitcoin.**

# What it is

*BTC Mythbusters* helps you to give conclusive answers to justified or unfound criticism about Bitcoin. Click on the answer to copy the text for usage in whatever online forum you like. No need to waste your time by manually addressing the same concerns over and over again.

***

# Bitcoin Critiques & Rebuttals

## Bitcoin Has No Intrinsic Value

> ***Bitcoin is entirely digital & not backed by anything and thus has no intrinsic value.***

**Rebuttal**
```
Mankind evaluates every invention based on its utility for a particular purpose. Bitcoin proves its value by continuing to maintain superior monetary characteristics over current forms of money - backed by advanced cryptography and the most resilient computer network in existence.
```
<details>

  <summary>Detailed rebuttal</summary>

  For supporters, Bitcoin's intrinsic value lies in the fact that it is an **uncorrelated asset**, its intangible properties (**immutable**, **open**, **borderless**, **decentralized**, **censorship-resistant**, etc.), its **scarcity**, and its **utility**.

  For the first time in history, anyone in the world with an internet connection can function as **their very own bank** while participating in the economy with **full control of their wealth**.

  The seven characteristics of money are **durability**, **portability**, **divisibility**, **uniformity**, **limited supply**, and **acceptability**. Many bitcoin proponents adamantly believe that **bitcoin checks all of these boxes** and is therefore hard money with real intrinsic value.

  Oftentimes, those who ascribe zero intrinsic value to bitcoin have done so by way of imperfect knowledge, a narrow perspective, and/or old-aged frameworks that under-represent, if not misrepresent, the capabilities of bitcoin and the very idea of "value".

  Further reading: [Kraken Intelligence - Bitcoin & Intrinsic Value](../_static/Bitcoin-Intrinsic-Value.pdf ':ignore')

</details>

## Bitcoin is only used by criminals

> ***Bitcoin is used by drug dealers, money launderers and ransomware attackers; therefore it is bad.***

**Rebuttal**
```
Independent reports suggest that the illicit use of Bitcoin is not higher than in the traditional banking system. Like any useful technology Bitcoin can be used to do good or harm.
```
<details>

  <summary>Detailed rebuttal</summary>

  It is unlogical to say that Bitcoin in only used for criminal activities while at the same time denying its usability as money for all of us.

  ```mermaid
  graph TD
  A[Is Bitcoin functional?] --> |No| B[Bitcoin is not functional <br/>for criminals nor anyone else]
  A --> |Yes| C[Bitcoin is functional for everyone,<br/>including criminals]

  style B fill:#ff6666
  style C fill:#42B983
  ```

  Studies show that BTC is not excessively used for illegal activities, e.g. former CIA intelligence analyst Micheal Morell concluded in his research that only about 1% of all Bitcoin transactions can be linked to illegal actions. <sup id="criminals-link-to-footnote1">[1](#criminals-footnote1)</sup>.

  Further reading: [Unchained Capital - Bitcoin is Not for Criminals](https://unchained-capital.com/blog/bitcoin-is-not-for-criminals/)

  <b id="criminals-footnote1">1</b> [Michael Morell et al. - An Analysis of Bitcoin’s Use in Illicit Finance](https://cryptoforinnovation.org/resources/Analysis_of_Bitcoin_in_Illicit_Finance.pdf) [↩](#criminals-link-to-footnote1)

</details>

Possible questions (To be expanded):

## The Government Will Shut Bitcoin Down
## Bitcoin is Too Volatile
## Bitcoin Wastes Energy
## Bitcoin Can Be Cloned/Bitcoin will be replaced by a competitor
## Bitcoin is a Bubble
## Bitcoin Fails As a Currency/Bitcoin has failed as a means of payment
## Bitcoin Can't Scale
## Bitcoin Gets Hacked
## Bitcoin is Being Pumped by Tether
## China Controls Bitcoin

***

# Contribute

You can add or edit questions and answers by clicking the *Edit on GitHub* button on top of the page. If you add a new Critic & Rebuttal make sure to copy a previous question in order to have consistent formatting.

Commit message:

Text for 2 more critiques added

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>BTC MythBusters</h1>
  <img width="200" src=".\_images\Logo-BTCMythBusters.png" alt="logo of BTC MythBusters">
</div>

> **Clarification of common misconceptions regarding Bitcoin.**

# What it is

*BTC Mythbusters* helps you to give conclusive answers to justified or unfound criticism about Bitcoin. Click on the answer to copy the text for usage in whatever online forum you like. No need to waste your time by manually addressing the same concerns over and over again.

***

# Bitcoin Critiques & Rebuttals

## Bitcoin Has No Intrinsic Value

> ***Bitcoin is entirely digital & not backed by anything and thus has no intrinsic value.***

**Rebuttal**
```
Mankind evaluates every invention based on its utility for a particular purpose. Bitcoin proves its value by continuing to maintain superior monetary characteristics over current forms of money - backed by advanced cryptography and the most resilient computer network in existence.
```
<details>

  <summary>Detailed rebuttal</summary>

  For supporters, Bitcoin's intrinsic value lies in the fact that it is an **uncorrelated asset**, its intangible properties (**immutable**, **open**, **borderless**, **decentralized**, **censorship-resistant**, etc.), its **scarcity**, and its **utility**.

  For the first time in history, anyone in the world with an internet connection can function as **their very own bank** while participating in the economy with **full control of their wealth**.

  The seven characteristics of money are **durability**, **portability**, **divisibility**, **uniformity**, **limited supply**, and **acceptability**. Many bitcoin proponents adamantly believe that **bitcoin checks all of these boxes** and is therefore hard money with real intrinsic value.

  Oftentimes, those who ascribe zero intrinsic value to bitcoin have done so by way of imperfect knowledge, a narrow perspective, and/or old-aged frameworks that under-represent, if not misrepresent, the capabilities of bitcoin and the very idea of "value".

  Further reading: [Kraken Intelligence - Bitcoin & Intrinsic Value](../_static/Bitcoin-Intrinsic-Value.pdf ':ignore')

</details>

## Bitcoin is only used by criminals

> ***Bitcoin is used by drug dealers, money launderers and ransomware attackers; therefore it is bad.***

**Rebuttal**
```
Independent reports suggest that the illicit use of Bitcoin is not higher than in the traditional banking system. Like any useful technology Bitcoin can be used to do good or harm.
```
<details>

  <summary>Detailed rebuttal</summary>

  It is unlogical to say that Bitcoin is only used for criminal activities while at the same time denying its usability as money for all of us.

  ```mermaid
  graph TD
  A[Is Bitcoin functional?] --> |No| B[Bitcoin is not functional <br/>for criminals nor anyone else]
  A --> |Yes| C[Bitcoin is functional for everyone,<br/>including criminals]

  style B fill:#ff6666
  style C fill:#42B983
  ```

  Studies show that BTC is not excessively used for illegal activities, e.g. former CIA intelligence analyst Micheal Morell concluded in his research that **only about 1%** of all Bitcoin transactions can be **linked to illegal actions**. <sup id="criminals-link-to-footnote1">[1](#criminals-footnote1)</sup>.

  Further reading: [Unchained Capital - Bitcoin is Not for Criminals](https://unchained-capital.com/blog/bitcoin-is-not-for-criminals/)

  <b id="criminals-footnote1">1</b> [Michael Morell et al. - An Analysis of Bitcoin’s Use in Illicit Finance](https://cryptoforinnovation.org/resources/Analysis_of_Bitcoin_in_Illicit_Finance.pdf) [↩](#criminals-link-to-footnote1)

</details>

Possible questions (To be expanded):

## The Government Will Shut Bitcoin Down

> ***Governments will not allow a competing currency which they cannot control.***

**Rebuttal**
```
The decentralized nature of Bitcoin makes it impossible even for governments to eliminate it completely. By trying, companies in these countries could lose the ability to compete in a financial sector completely reshaped by cryptocurrencies.
```
<details>

  <summary>Detailed rebuttal</summary>

  More and more influential individuals and companies <sup id="shut-down-link-to-footnote1">[1](#shut-down-footnote1)</sup> are invested and believe in the cryptocurrency. El Salvador was the first country to declare Bitcoin as legal tender <sup id="shut-down-link-to-footnote2">[2](#shut-down-footnote2)</sup>. This rapidly evolving trend makes it increasingly difficult to prevent the further propagation without provoking counter-reactions.

  Further reading: [Quillette - Can Governments Stop Bitcoin?](https://quillette.com/2021/02/21/can-governments-stop-bitcoin/)

  <b id="shut-down-footnote1">1</b> [CNBC - BlackRock’s Rick Rieder says the world’s largest asset manager has ‘started to dabble’ in bitcoin](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/02/17/blackrock-has-started-to-dabble-in-bitcoin-says-rick-rieder.html) [↩](#shut-down-link-to-footnote1)

  <b id="shut-down-footnote2">2</b> [Reuters - In a world first, El Salvador makes bitcoin legal tender](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/02/17/blackrock-has-started-to-dabble-in-bitcoin-says-rick-rieder.html) [↩](#shut-down-link-to-footnote2)

</details>

## Bitcoin is Too Volatile
## Bitcoin Wastes Energy
## Bitcoin Can Be Cloned/Bitcoin will be replaced by a competitor
## Bitcoin is a Bubble
## Bitcoin Fails As a Currency/Bitcoin has failed as a means of payment
## Bitcoin Can't Scale
## Bitcoin Gets Hacked
## Bitcoin can be killed by Quantum computers
## Bitcoin is controlled by China

***

# Contribute

You can add or edit questions and answers by clicking the *Edit on GitHub* button on top of the page. If you add a new Critic & Rebuttal make sure to copy a previous question in order to have consistent formatting.
